=head1 Termbox::PP

B<Termbox::PP> is a Perl module that provides a minimalistic API and enables 
Perl programmers to create text-based user interfaces.

Here are three outstanding advantages:

=over

=item 1 B<Pure Perl>

The library is implemented in pure Perl and does not require any XS or C code. 
This makes it very portable and easy to install on any I<*nix> operating system 
with a Perl interpreter.

=item 2 B<Abstraction of functions> 

The basic idea is to abstract the largest common subset of functions available 
on all major terminals and other terminal-like APIs in a minimalistic way.

=item 3 B<Simplicity of the API> 

A small API means that it is easy to implement, test, maintain and learn. This 
makes termbox a unique library.

=back

=head2 Warning

This port of termbox2 is still quite new and still has to prove itself in 
production use and possibly be improved.

=head2 Install

To install the B<Termbox::PP> module type the following:

  cpan Termbox::PP

Manual install:

  perl Makefile.PL
  make
  make install

=head2 Dependencies

B<Termbox::PP> mainly needs Core modules of Perl >= 
L<v5.10|http://metacpan.org/release/DAPM/perl-5.10.1> and these modules for
development and testing:

=over

=item * L<Devel::StrictMode>

=item * L<Test::Exception>  (only for testing)

=back

=head2 Examples

For examples of what you can do, see the various examples in the C<example/> 
directory. You can try them out via:
  
  perl example/hello_world.pl

=head1 Credits

B<Termbox::PP> is a port of L<termbox2|https://github.com/termbox/termbox2>.

=head2 Author

=over

=item * 2024,2026 J. Schneider E<lt>L<http://github.com/brickpool>E<gt>

=back

=head2 Copyright and Licence

=over

=item * Copyright (c) 2021 by termbox developers

=item * MIT License

=back

=cut
