=pod

=head1 NAME

Termbox::PP - minimalistic terminal UI library in pure Perl

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # Load pure-Perl implementation (provides Termbox.pm)
  require Termbox::PP;

  # Import API
  use Termbox qw(:all);

  # Initialize termbox
  my $rv = tb_init();
  die "Failed to initialize termbox" if $rv != TB_OK;

  # Ensure cleanup on exit
  END {
    tb_shutdown();
  }

  # Create event object
  my $event = Termbox::Event->new();

  # Main loop
  while (1) {

    # Clear back buffer
    tb_clear();

    # Draw content
    tb_print(0, 0, TB_WHITE, TB_DEFAULT, "Hello Termbox");
    tb_print(0, 1, TB_CYAN,  TB_DEFAULT, "Press 'q' to quit");

    # Present to screen
    tb_present();

    # Wait for event
    my $rv = tb_poll_event($event);
    last if $rv != TB_OK;

    # Handle key events
    if ($event->type == TB_EVENT_KEY) {

      # Quit on 'q'
      last if $event->ch && chr($event->ch) eq 'q';
    }
  }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Termbox::PP> is a lightweight, minimalistic library for building
text-based user interfaces in Perl.

It provides a small and consistent API for working with terminal output,
input events, and screen buffers, focusing on the common functionality
shared across modern terminal emulators.

The module offers a simple abstraction layer for:

=over

=item * rendering text using a cell-based back buffer

=item * handling keyboard, mouse, and resize events

=item * working with colors and terminal attributes

=back

Unlike the original C implementation, C<Termbox::PP> is written entirely
in pure Perl and does not require XS or external libraries. It depends
only on core modules available since Perl 
L<5.10|https://metacpan.org/release/DAPM/perl-5.10.1>.

=head2 Features

=over

=item * Portable abstraction

Provides a consistent API across different terminal environments.

=item * Small and simple API

The limited API surface makes the module easy to learn, use, and maintain.

=item * Pure Perl implementation

No XS dependencies or external libraries required.

=back

=head2 Usage Note

The module provides a pure Perl implementation of C<Termbox> by
registering itself as C<Termbox.pm> at runtime.

Therefore, it must be loaded before using C<Termbox>:

  require Termbox::PP;
  use Termbox qw(:all);

=head2 Status

This module is a Perl port of termbox2 and is still relatively new.
While it aims to be feature-complete, it should be considered
experimental and may evolve based on real-world usage.

=head1 API OVERVIEW

The following list provides an overview of the public API,
grouped by functionality:

  # Initialize the termbox library
  tb_init
  tb_init_file
  tb_init_fd
  tb_init_rwfd
  tb_shutdown

  # Return the size of the internal back buffer
  tb_width
  tb_height

  # Clear and update the screen
  tb_clear
  tb_set_clear_attrs
  tb_present
  tb_invalidate

  # Cursor handling
  tb_set_cursor
  tb_hide_cursor

  # Cell operations
  tb_set_cell
  tb_set_cell_ex
  tb_extend_cell
  tb_get_cell

  # Input and output modes
  tb_set_input_mode
  tb_set_output_mode

  # Event handling
  tb_peek_event
  tb_poll_event
  tb_get_fds

  # Printing functions
  tb_print
  tb_printf
  tb_print_ex
  tb_printf_ex

  # Raw output
  tb_send
  tb_sendf

  # UTF-8 utility functions
  tb_utf8_char_length
  tb_utf8_char_to_unicode
  tb_utf8_unicode_to_char

  # Utility functions
  tb_last_errno
  tb_strerror
  tb_has_truecolor
  tb_has_egc
  tb_attr_width
  tb_version
  tb_iswprint
  tb_wcwidth

  # Deprecated
  tb_cell_buffer
  tb_set_func

=head1 SUBROUTINES

=head2 tb_init

  my $rv = tb_init();

Initializes the termbox library using C</dev/tty>.

This is the most common entry point and should be called before any other
API function. Internally, it is equivalent to:

  tb_init_file('/dev/tty');

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_init_file

  my $rv = tb_init_file($path);

Initializes the termbox library using the specified tty device path.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $path (Str)

Path to the tty device (e.g. C</dev/tty>).

=back

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_init_fd

  my $rv = tb_init_fd($ttyfd);

Initializes the termbox library using an existing file descriptor.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $ttyfd (Int)

File descriptor referring to a tty device.

=back

This is a convenience wrapper for C<tb_init_rwfd($ttyfd, $ttyfd)>.

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_init_rwfd

  my $rv = tb_init_rwfd($rfd, $wfd);

Initializes the termbox library using separate read and write
file descriptors.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $rfd (Int)

File descriptor used for reading input.

=item * $wfd (Int)

File descriptor used for writing output.

=back

This is the most flexible initialization method and is typically used when
integrating termbox into custom I/O setups.

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_shutdown

  my $rv = tb_shutdown();

Finalizes the termbox library and restores the terminal state.

This function must be called after successful initialization to ensure that
the terminal is returned to its normal mode (cursor visibility, input mode,
etc.).

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or C<TB_ERR_NOT_INIT> if termbox was not
initialized.

=head2 tb_width

  my $cols = tb_width();

Returns the width of the internal back buffer in columns.

This value corresponds to the current terminal width. It is updated after
initialization and whenever the terminal size changes (e.g. after a resize
event).

Returns a negative error code (C<TB_ERR_NOT_INIT>) if the library has not
been initialized.

=head2 tb_height

  my $rows = tb_height();

Returns the height of the internal back buffer in rows.

This value corresponds to the current terminal height. It is updated after
initialization and whenever the terminal size changes.

Returns a negative error code (C<TB_ERR_NOT_INIT>) if the library has not
been initialized.

=head2 tb_clear

  my $rv = tb_clear();

Clears the internal back buffer using the currently configured
foreground/background clear attributes.

This does not immediately update the terminal. Call C<tb_present()> to
flush the changes to the screen.

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_set_clear_attrs

  my $rv = tb_set_clear_attrs($fg, $bg);

Sets the foreground and background attributes used by C<tb_clear()>.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $fg (Int)

Foreground color/attribute (bitmask of C<TB_*> constants).

=item * $bg (Int)

Background color/attribute (bitmask of C<TB_*> constants).

=back

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code if termbox is not
initialized.

=head2 tb_present

  my $rv = tb_present();

Flushes the internal back buffer to the terminal.

All changes made via functions like C<tb_set_cell()> or C<tb_print()>
become visible only after calling this function.

Typically, applications perform rendering in a loop:

  tb_clear();
  # draw content
  tb_present();

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_invalidate

  my $rv = tb_invalidate();

Invalidates the internal front buffer and forces a full redraw on the next
C<tb_present()> call.

This is usually not required in normal operation but can be useful after
terminal inconsistencies (e.g. external redraws or unsupported escape
sequences).

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_set_cursor

  my $rv = tb_set_cursor($cx, $cy);

Sets the position of the cursor.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $cx (Int)

Column position (0-based).

=item * $cy (Int)

Row position (0-based).

=back

The top-left corner of the terminal is (0, 0).

Passing negative values will clamp the cursor to (0, 0).

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code if termbox is not
initialized.

=head2 tb_hide_cursor

  my $rv = tb_hide_cursor();

Hides the terminal cursor.

This is equivalent to calling:

  tb_set_cursor(-1, -1);

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code if termbox is not
initialized.

=head2 tb_set_cell

  my $rv = tb_set_cell($x, $y, $ch, $fg, $bg);

Sets a single cell in the internal back buffer.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $x (Int)

Column position (0-based).

=item * $y (Int)

Row position (0-based).

=item * $ch (Int)

Unicode codepoint.

=item * $fg (Int)

Foreground color/attribute (bitmask of C<TB_*> constants).

=item * $bg (Int)

Background color/attribute (bitmask of C<TB_*> constants).

=back

This is a convenience wrapper around C<tb_set_cell_ex()>.

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_set_cell_ex

  my $rv = tb_set_cell_ex($x, $y, \@ch, $nch, $fg, $bg);

Sets a cell using one or more Unicode codepoints (cluster).

Arguments:

=over

=item * $x, $y (Int)

Cell position (0-based).

=item * \@ch (ArrayRef)

Array of Unicode codepoints.

=item * $nch (Int)

Number of codepoints in C<\@ch>.

=item * $fg, $bg (Int)

Foreground/background attributes.

=back

This function allows setting extended grapheme clusters when
C<TB_OPT_EGC> is enabled.

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_extend_cell

  my $rv = tb_extend_cell($x, $y, $ch);

Appends a Unicode codepoint to an existing cell.

This is used to build extended grapheme clusters incrementally.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $x, $y (Int)

Cell position.

=item * $ch (Int)

Unicode codepoint to append.

=back

This function requires C<TB_OPT_EGC> support.

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_get_cell

  my $rv = tb_get_cell($x, $y, $back, \$cell);

Returns a reference to a cell at the given position.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $x, $y (Int)

Cell position.

=item * $back (Bool)

If true, access the back buffer; otherwise the front buffer.

=item * \$cell (ScalarRef)

Output parameter receiving the cell reference.

=back

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_set_input_mode

  my $rv = tb_set_input_mode($mode);

Sets the input mode for keyboard and mouse handling.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $mode (Int)

Bitmask of input mode flags.

Supported flags:

  TB_INPUT_ESC
  TB_INPUT_ALT
  TB_INPUT_MOUSE

=back

Behavior:

=over

=item * C<TB_INPUT_ESC>

Escape (C<\x1b>) is returned as a standalone key event.

=item * C<TB_INPUT_ALT>

Escape prefixes are interpreted as ALT-modified key events.

=item * C<TB_INPUT_MOUSE>

Enables mouse input events.

=back

Notes:

=over

=item * If neither C<TB_INPUT_ESC> nor C<TB_INPUT_ALT> is set, C<TB_INPUT_ESC> is used.

=item * If both C<TB_INPUT_ESC> and C<TB_INPUT_ALT> are set, only C<TB_INPUT_ESC> is used.

=item * Pass C<TB_INPUT_CURRENT> to query the current mode.

=back

Returns the current mode if C<TB_INPUT_CURRENT> is passed, otherwise
C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_set_output_mode

  my $rv = tb_set_output_mode($mode);

Sets the rendering output mode (color capabilities).

Arguments:

=over

=item * $mode (Int)

One of:

  TB_OUTPUT_NORMAL
  TB_OUTPUT_256
  TB_OUTPUT_216
  TB_OUTPUT_GRAYSCALE

Optional (depending on build):

  TB_OUTPUT_TRUECOLOR

=back

Behavior:

=over

=item * C<TB_OUTPUT_NORMAL>

8 basic colors + attributes.

=item * C<TB_OUTPUT_256>

256-color palette.

=item * C<TB_OUTPUT_216>

216-color subset.

=item * C<TB_OUTPUT_GRAYSCALE>

24 grayscale levels.

=item * C<TB_OUTPUT_TRUECOLOR>

24-bit RGB color (if supported).

=back

Notes:

=over

=item * Pass C<TB_OUTPUT_CURRENT> to retrieve the current mode.

=item * Color interpretation depends on terminal capabilities.

=item * Switching modes does not automatically re-render existing cells.

=back

Returns the current mode if C<TB_OUTPUT_CURRENT> is passed, otherwise
C<TB_OK> on success or C<TB_ERR> on invalid mode.

=head2 tb_peek_event

  my $rv = tb_peek_event($event, $timeout_ms);

Waits for an event with a timeout.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $event (Termbox::Event)

Event object that will be populated.

=item * $timeout_ms (Int)

Timeout in milliseconds.

=back

Returns:

=over

=item * C<TB_OK> if an event was received

=item * C<TB_ERR_NO_EVENT> if the timeout expired

=item * negative error code on failure

=back

=head2 tb_poll_event

  my $rv = tb_poll_event($event);

Waits indefinitely for the next event.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $event (Termbox::Event)

Event object that will be populated.

=back

This is equivalent to:

  tb_peek_event($event, -1);

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_get_fds

  my $rv = tb_get_fds($ttyfd, $resizefd);

Returns internal file descriptors used by termbox.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $ttyfd (ScalarRef)

Receives the tty file descriptor.

=item * $resizefd (ScalarRef)

Receives the resize event file descriptor.

=back

These descriptors can be used with C<select()>, C<poll()> or similar
mechanisms for integrating termbox into custom event loops.

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or C<TB_ERR_NOT_INIT> if termbox is not initialized.

=head2 tb_print

  my $rv = tb_print($x, $y, $fg, $bg, $str);

Writes a string to the internal back buffer at the given position.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $x, $y (Int)

Starting position (0-based).

=item * $fg (Int)

Foreground color/attribute (bitmask of C<TB_*> constants).

=item * $bg (Int)

Background color/attribute (bitmask of C<TB_*> constants).

=item * $str (Str)

String to render.

=back

This is a convenience wrapper around C<tb_print_ex()>.

The text is written into the back buffer and becomes visible only after
calling C<tb_present()>.

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_print_ex

  my $rv = tb_print_ex($x, $y, $fg, $bg, \$out_width, $str);

Extended print function with optional width output.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $x, $y (Int)

Starting position.

=item * $fg, $bg (Int)

Foreground/background attributes.

=item * \$out_width (ScalarRef or undef)

Optional output parameter receiving the rendered width.

=item * $str (Str)

String to render.

=back

This function converts the string into Unicode codepoints and writes them
into the back buffer.

If C<$out_width> is provided, it will be set to the number of columns used.

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_printf

  my $rv = tb_printf($x, $y, $fg, $bg, $fmt, @args);

Formatted print function (like C<sprintf>).

Arguments:

=over

=item * $fmt (Str)

Format string.

=item * @args

Arguments for formatting.

=back

This is a convenience wrapper around C<tb_print_ex()>.

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_printf_ex

  my $rv = tb_printf_ex($x, $y, $fg, $bg, \$out_width, $fmt, @args);

Extended formatted print function.

This function behaves like C<tb_printf()> but allows retrieving the output
width via C<$out_width>.

Internally, it formats the string and delegates to C<tb_print_ex()>.

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_send

  my $rv = tb_send($buf, $len);

Sends raw bytes directly to the terminal.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $buf (Str)

Buffer containing raw bytes.

=item * $len (Int)

Number of bytes to send.

=back

This function bypasses the cell buffer and writes directly to the output
buffer.

Use with care, as it may interfere with termbox's internal state.

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 tb_sendf

  my $rv = tb_sendf($fmt, @args);

Formatted version of C<tb_send()>.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $fmt (Str)

Format string.

=item * @args

Arguments for formatting.

=back

The formatted string is sent directly to the terminal as raw bytes.

The output length must not exceed the internal buffer size
(C<TB_OPT_PRINTF_BUF>), otherwise an error is returned.

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or C<TB_ERR> on failure.

=head2 tb_utf8_char_length

  my $len = tb_utf8_char_length($str);

Returns the byte length of the first UTF-8 character in the given string.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $str (Str)

Input string.

=back

If the string is empty, returns 0.

The result is between 1 and 6 bytes.

Returns 0 on empty input.

=head2 tb_utf8_char_to_unicode

  my $len = tb_utf8_char_to_unicode(\$out, $str);

Converts a UTF-8 encoded character into a Unicode codepoint.

Arguments:

=over

=item * \$out (ScalarRef)

Output parameter receiving the Unicode codepoint.

=item * $str (Str)

Input string containing at least one UTF-8 character.

=back

Behavior:

=over

=item * Returns 0 if the input string is empty.

=item * Returns a negative value on decoding error.

=item * Otherwise returns the number of bytes consumed.

=back

=head2 tb_utf8_unicode_to_char

  my $len = tb_utf8_unicode_to_char(\$out, $codepoint);

Converts a Unicode codepoint into a UTF-8 encoded string.

Arguments:

=over

=item * \$out (ScalarRef)

Output parameter receiving the UTF-8 encoded string.

=item * $codepoint (Int)

Unicode codepoint.

=back

Returns the number of bytes written (1-6 bytes).

Supports standard Unicode range as well as extended UTF-8 encoding.

=head2 tb_last_errno

  my $err = tb_last_errno();

Returns the last error number produced by termbox.

This value can be used together with C<tb_strerror()> to obtain a
human-readable error message.

=head2 tb_strerror

  my $msg = tb_strerror($err);

Returns a string describing the given error code.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $err (Int)

Error code returned by a termbox function.

=back

For system-level errors, the underlying C<$!> value is used.

=head2 tb_has_truecolor

  my $bool = tb_has_truecolor();

Returns whether truecolor (24-bit color) is supported by the build.

Returns 1 if available, otherwise 0

=head2 tb_has_egc

  my $bool = tb_has_egc();

Returns whether extended grapheme cluster (EGC) support is enabled.

Returns 1 if enabled, otherwise 0.

=head2 tb_attr_width

  my $bits = tb_attr_width();

Returns the bit width used for attribute encoding.

Typical values are 16, 32, or 64 depending on build configuration.

=head2 tb_iswprint

  my $bool = tb_iswprint($codepoint);

Checks whether a Unicode codepoint is printable.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $codepoint (Int)

Unicode codepoint.

=back

Returns a boolean value.

=head2 tb_wcwidth

  my $width = tb_wcwidth($codepoint);

Returns the display width of a Unicode codepoint.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $codepoint (Int)

Unicode codepoint.

=back

Returns:

=over

=item * -1 for non-printable characters

=item * 0 for zero-width characters

=item * 1 or 2 for printable characters

=back

Width calculation depends on Unicode properties and locale settings.

=head2 tb_cell_buffer

  my $cells = tb_cell_buffer();

B<DEPRECATED>

Returns a reference to the internal back buffer.

This function is deprecated and may be removed in a future release.

Instead, use:

  tb_get_cell()

and related APIs to access cell data.

Returns an array reference of C<Termbox::Cell> objects.

=head2 tb_set_func

  my $rv = tb_set_func($type, $coderef);

B<DEPRECATED>

Sets a custom callback for escape sequence processing.

Arguments:

=over

=item * $type (Int)

One of:

  TB_FUNC_EXTRACT_PRE
  TB_FUNC_EXTRACT_POST

=item * $coderef (CodeRef)

Callback function.

=back

This function is deprecated and may be removed in a future release.

Returns C<TB_OK> on success or a negative error code on failure.

=head2 Termbox::Cell

Represents a single cell in the terminal.

Fields:

=over

=item * C<ch> (Int)

Unicode codepoint.

=item * C<fg> (Int)

Foreground attributes.

=item * C<bg> (Int)

Background attributes.

=back

=head3 Extended Grapheme Cluster Methods

The following methods are available when C<TB_OPT_EGC> is enabled:

=over

=item * C<ech>

  my $aref = $cell->ech();

Returns an array reference containing the Unicode codepoints of the
extended grapheme cluster stored in the cell.

Returns C<undef> if the cell does not contain a multi-codepoint cluster.

Example usage:

  my $cell;
  tb_get_cell(0, 0, 1, \$cell);

  if (my $cluster = $cell->ech()) {
    print "Cluster size: ", scalar(@$cluster), "\n";
  }

=item * C<nech>

  my $n = $cell->nech();

Returns the length of the extended grapheme cluster if it contains more
than one codepoint, otherwise returns 0.

=item * C<cech>

  my $count = $cell->cech();

Returns the number of codepoints in the extended grapheme cluster.

Returns 0 if no cluster is present.

=back

=head3 Constructor

  my $cell = Termbox::Cell->new();

Creates a new cell object.

A cell represents a single position in the terminal and contains:

=over

=item * character (UTF-8 string / codepoint)

=item * foreground attributes

=item * background attributes

=back

The returned object can be used internally by termbox functions or
retrieved via C<tb_get_cell()>.

Returns a new C<Termbox::Cell> instance.

=head2 Termbox::Event

Represents an input event from the terminal.

Event objects are populated by C<tb_peek_event()> and
C<tb_poll_event()>.

Fields:

=over

=item * C<type> (Int)

Event type:

  TB_EVENT_KEY
  TB_EVENT_RESIZE
  TB_EVENT_MOUSE

=item * C<key> (Int)

Key constant (C<TB_KEY_*>). Used for special keys.

=item * C<ch> (Int)

Unicode codepoint (for character input).

=item * C<mod> (Int)

Modifier flags (bitmask of C<TB_MOD_*>):

  TB_MOD_ALT
  TB_MOD_CTRL
  TB_MOD_SHIFT

=item * C<w> (Int)

Width of the terminal after resize (only valid for resize events).

=item * C<h> (Int)

Height of the terminal after resize.

=item * C<x> (Int)

Mouse X position (for mouse events).

=item * C<y> (Int)

Mouse Y position (for mouse events).

=back

=head3 Constructor

  my $event = Termbox::Event->new();

Creates a new event object.

The event structure is used with C<tb_peek_event()> and
C<tb_poll_event()> to receive input events.

Depending on the event type, the following fields are populated:

=over

=item * type

One of:

  TB_EVENT_KEY
  TB_EVENT_RESIZE
  TB_EVENT_MOUSE

=item * key

Key constant (C<TB_KEY_*>).

=item * ch

Unicode codepoint (for character input).

=item * mod

Modifier flags (C<TB_MOD_*>).

=item * w, h

New terminal size (resize events).

=item * x, y

Mouse coordinates.

=back

Returns a new C<Termbox::Event> instance.

=head1 COMPILE-TIME OPTIONS

C<Termbox::PP> provides several compile-time options that influence its
behavior. These options are typically controlled via environment variables
and are evaluated when the module is loaded.

B<Note:> Most applications do not need to modify these settings. The defaults 
are suitable for typical terminal applications.

=head2 STRICT

  PERL_STRICT=1 perl your_script.pl

Enables strict argument validation for internal API calls.

If enabled, function arguments are checked more rigorously and invalid
input may cause exceptions.

By default, STRICT mode is enabled automatically when one of the following
environment variables is set:

  PERL_STRICT
  EXTENDED_TESTING
  AUTHOR_TESTING
  RELEASE_TESTING

=head2 TB_OPT_EGC

  TB_OPT_EGC=0 perl your_script.pl

Controls support for extended grapheme clusters (EGC).

=over

=item * Enabled (default)

Cells may contain multi-codepoint grapheme clusters (e.g. emoji,
combining characters).

=item * Disabled

Cells are restricted to a single codepoint.

=back

=head2 TB_OPT_PRINTF_BUF

  TB_OPT_PRINTF_BUF=8192 perl your_script.pl

Defines the maximum buffer size used by C<tb_printf()> and C<tb_sendf()>.

If the formatted output exceeds this size, the operation will fail.

Default: 4096 bytes.

=head2 TB_OPT_READ_BUF

  TB_OPT_READ_BUF=128 perl your_script.pl

Defines the size of the input buffer used when reading from the terminal.

Increasing this value may improve performance for high-throughput input
scenarios.

Default: 64 bytes.

=head2 TB_OPT_LIBC_WCHAR

  TB_OPT_LIBC_WCHAR=0 perl your_script.pl

Selects the backend used for Unicode width calculations.

=over

=item * Enabled (default)

Uses C<Unicode::UCD>-based width calculation.

=item * Disabled

Uses the bundled fallback implementation.

=back

=head2 TB_OPT_ATTR_W

Controls the bit width used for attribute encoding.

Typical values are:

  16   (basic attributes)
  32   (extended / truecolor)
  64   (additional style attributes)

This value is determined automatically based on the configuration and
cannot be directly overridden in normal use.

=head2 TB_TERMINFO_DIR

  TB_TERMINFO_DIR=/custom/path perl your_script.pl

Specifies a custom directory for terminfo database lookup.

If not set, standard system locations are used.

=head2 TB_RESIZE_FALLBACK_MS

  TB_RESIZE_FALLBACK_MS=500 perl your_script.pl

Defines the timeout (in milliseconds) used for fallback terminal size
detection.

Default: 1000 ms.

=head2 TB_OPT_TRUECOLOR

B<DEPRECATED>

Legacy option for enabling truecolor support.

This option is retained for backward compatibility and should not be used
in new code.

=head1 AUTHOR

J. Schneider E<lt>L<http://github.com/brickpool>E<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

 Copyright (C) 2012 by termbox-go authors
               2010-2020 nsf <no.smile.face@gmail.com>
               2015-2024,2025 Adam Saponara <as@php.net>
               2024-2026 J. Schneider <http://github.com/brickpool>

 Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
 copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
 to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
 the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
 and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
 Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

 The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
 all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES

 THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
 IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
 FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
 THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
 LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
 FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
 DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

=head1 REQUIRES

L<5.010|https://metacpan.org/release/DAPM/perl-5.10.1>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Termbox>

L<termbox2|https://github.com/termbox/termbox2>

=cut
